[Music]
you have a network of tissues and organs
that work together to keep fluid
balanced in your body
it does that by getting rid of toxins
and other unwanted stuff in the body
that network is called the lymphatic
system but for a long time
scientists thought we didn't have this
thing in our brain until recently
in 2015 a report came out talking about
lymphatic vessels in the membrane of the
mice's brains
then sometime later brain imaging showed
that humans have lymphatic vessels
on the membranes of our brains too and
their job is to make way for your immune
cells to go through the central nervous
system and take out the trash
in 2018 researchers found a new organ
that takes up a lot of weight in our
body it looks like an oddly shaped
honeycomb wall
filled with fluid it was discovered by
accident
when scientists were looking at the
tissue of people's organs
experts named this new organ
interstitium
but some others dismissed the claim
because they believed calling uneven
microscopic spaces filled with fluid
an organ wasn't accurate the
interstitium is a
collagen mesh that shrinks and expands
like a shock absorber
it also acts as a highway to transport
fluids within your organs
and around the body the volume of the
fluid is around 20 percent of your body
weight
but it can fluctuate depending on your
health
i'm talking about the mesentery not to
be confused with cemetery
it's a huge sheet of tissue that looks
like a coral
it holds your intestines in place
attaches them to the wall of the abdomen
and helps to store fat until recently
scientists believe it had multiple
little fragments
but they were able to look at it closely
when patients were going through surgery
there they found that it's actually a
single unit
and it wasn't the first time this was
mentioned even leonardo da vinci
showed it in his drawings after his
continuity was discovered
scientists agreed that it should qualify
as an organ while
other experts disagree have you heard
the idiom about
walls that have ears well if they're
really mad you could have found
out their names hey sean hearing me well
enough are you
anyway the little gullies and hills of
the inside of your ears
are nowhere else to be found you can be
sure that no one has the same shape of
ears as you
scientists from the uk have even
developed a method of identifying a
person
by measuring the reflection of light off
the curves
inside the ears i wonder if it's like a
shadow play or something
whatever the case it seems to be a
pretty handy discovery
because yahoo one of the biggest
software developers in the world
is now working on an ear scanner for
smartphones
you won't need to press your finger to a
special sensor anymore
to make a call just hold your phone to
your ear
now i've already mentioned your eyes but
irises aren't the only thing that can
distinguish you from other people
throughout the years
your periocular region is the area just
around the eyes that includes the bridge
of your nose and your eyebrows
scientists say this is a very reliable
way to identify someone
even without sophisticated equipment not
only the eyes can serve as our
biomedical id
but the zone immediately around them too
this is especially true because
unlike other parts of our face the
periocular region pretty much doesn't
age
there are little to no wrinkles
appearing in that part
and the skin remains taut there if only
that could be true about the whole
face well what did you think
if your fingerprints are unique why
wouldn't toe prints be
so your toes are just like fingers
except they're on your feet
and they also have those swirling
patterns on their soft parts
some scientists even think that toe
printing is a better way to collect
biometric data about an individual
because toe patterns are less likely to
be erased
after all you always use your bare hands
in everyday life
while your feet are normally covered
with some kind of footwear
basically yawning isn't only supposed to
happen when you're sleepy or bored
that's just the most common
circumstances for it fun fact
parachutists often yawn right before
they get ready to jump from the plane
now i wouldn't call that a good moment
to take a nap nor would i say that
skydiving is the most boring thing ever
try it sometime yawning is basically
stretching your jaw
and inhaling as deep as you can both
actions make the blood in your vessels
rush to your head
and spinal fluid go down your spine
surprisingly it's a way
for your body to shake you up whenever
you feel stressed or anxious
you might yawn as your body prepares
itself to deal with it
yawning also has psychological reasons
you've probably noticed that it can be
contagious that's because we're a highly
social species
and as such we need to synchronize our
cycles of sleep with each other
in short when one person starts to yawn
from fatigue
he or she sends a signal of fatigue to
others around
and makes everyone sleeping well it
turns out
yawning is magic have you ever seen
those strange
ghostly looking flies that seem to float
aimlessly
right in front of your eyes or maybe
even inside your eyes
well don't be afraid these aren't flies
at all they're
eye floaters they're especially easy to
see if you look at the blue sky or
other light in clear scenes floaters
aren't exactly objects
they're just tiny imperfections in one
special part of the main body of the eye
called the vitreous we see them because
these structural imperfections
stand in the way of the light that
passes from pupil to retina which forms
revision
so you don't have to rush to an
optometrist the next time you see them
they're usually perfectly harmless
the worst kind of waking up is when you
jerk or jump
startled with the terrible sensation
that you fell off your bed
or a cliff it turns out this happens
right
after you've fallen asleep at the exact
moment all your muscles simultaneously
relax
your brain may mistake it as a distress
call because
normally if all your muscles relaxed
you'd fall
to prepare you for the fall your brain
will naturally send a lot of quick
signals to your muscles to make them
work again
this phenomenon even has a special name
hypnic jerks the same thing also happens
on a smaller scale
making your legs or arms twitch when
you're falling asleep
the difference between us and our little
ape cousins
is not in the quantity of hair at all
that's the same
it's all in the quality we use nicer
shampoos i know
now it really comes down to the way we
evolved our hair
we needed to sweat more effectively and
thus control body heat
another good thing about our fine dainty
hair it's much less likely to harbor
parasites
and we look better this way so it's a
win-win
your lungs are capable of forcing air
out of them so hard
that it moves almost at the speed of
sound okay
one-third the speed of sound but still
this is for particularly boisterous
coughs coming from a pretty large set of
lungs
like this
[Music]
wow i need some water just imagine if it
was a little
faster and you created a sonic boom well
don't count on it
our lungs regulate the speed
nope it has a special mechanism to
manage going underwater
it's called the diving reflex and it's
in almost every kind of mammal
including humans this reflex
redistributes
oxygen in your body by channeling it to
your heart and brain
the moment you dive into the water your
body automatically slows down the heart
rate
constricts blood vessels and releases
red blood cells stored in the spleen
this reflex is also triggered by wetting
the face and especially the nostrils
but it won't work just from running your
hands or feet under water
speaking of which it may seem like
something that just happens to your skin
if it's wet
but here's a curveball fact people with
damaged nerves in the skin
don't get wrinkly fingers in the water
it turns out that this wrinkling
is a powerful reaction to water
triggered by the nervous system
we need these wrinkles to achieve a
better grip with wet surfaces
experiments have proven this too a
person with these rays and fingers was
able to collect more wet marbles than a
person with smooth dry hands
every single second there are one
hundred thousand chemical reactions
going on in that big brain of yours
breathing blinking moving muscles and
controlling your body like a marionette
your brain stays busy around the clock
for such a complex machine the human
brain is mostly water
about 70 percent that's why going
without water is a more immediate
problem than going without food
the average person will grow 600 miles
of hair in a lifetime
that's about the distance from new york
city to dayton ohio
it's a very hairy distance that pink
squishy looking membrane in the inner
corner of your eye
is a leftover from evolution it used to
be a third
nictitating eyelid many animals still
have it
like birds reptiles and cats
goosebumps are also left over from
evolution they used to help our much
hairier ancestors
living in dayton ohio look bigger and
scarier
yes just like how a cat's hair stands up
on end when it feels it needs to protect
itself
or scare somebody away you can't burp in
space
really try it can't go to space well
trust me
burping happens when liquid separates
from gas in the stomach
and this only occurs thanks to gravity
the heart pumps blood at such a pressure
that it could raise it up to the fourth
floor of a building
and it takes 45 seconds for your blood
to pump from your heart
through your whole body and back to home
base
it also pumps 2 000 gallons of the stuff
in a single day
that's almost as much as a concrete
mixer truck can hold
[Music]
information moves along nerves at about
200 miles per hour
getting from one place to another in a
matter of milliseconds
and that's why you jerk your hand back
so quickly when you accidentally touch
that hot pizza pan
your brain has 86 billion nerve cells
that join to create 100 trillion
connections
for comparison our milky way galaxy
contains
only about 300 billion stars
we get visible armpit stains at the most
inopportune moments
during a speech on a date at a job
interview
i know it's embarrassing but your body
is trying to protect you
it releases sweat in response to any
danger or stress
if you were an early human trying to get
out of a headlock with a rival
then your wet skin would be slippery
sweaty palms also cling to tree branches
better
next time you're giving a presentation
just remember
you'll be able to slip out of an enemy's
grip and climb up a tree
yeah it's handy well when the weather
changes
the air pressure changes your blood
vessels and nerves
feel this difference in pressure and
react they expand
get smaller or spasm in an ideal
situation
these vessels are elastic and quickly
recover when the weather changes
drastically
but for some people their vessels and
nerves can't keep up
so you get a pressure difference between
the inside of your body and the outside
the result pain in the form of a
headache or migraine
and fyi your body is telling you to find
a more comfortable environment
over thousands of years of evolution the
human brain has become accustomed to two
types of movement
walking and running in comparison to
human history
cars appeared not so long ago so the
brain hasn't completely adapted
when you're sitting in a car your
muscles are relaxed
which means there are no signs that
movement is occurring
yet the inner ear which controls balance
feels that there is movement
the brain comes to a logical conclusion
i have been poisoned what's the best
reaction to poisoning
nausea every time you sunbathe
a real battle is taking place on the
surface of your skin
the sun emits ultraviolet rays that are
harmful to our bodies
to defend itself your skin starts
producing a special pigment
melanin it steps forward and bravely
takes a hit
and absorbs ultraviolet light with more
and more pigment being produced
the skin gets darker now with hair
things are a little different
it does have small reserves of melanin
but it can't produce it like your skin
can so the sun quickly burns all the
melanin reserves
and the hair loses a little pigment it's
like the nursery rhyme
this little pigment went to market this
little pigment stayed home
this little pigment had um what oh
that's piggies not pigment
never mind it was believed for a while
that the tongue will beat pound for
pound every other muscle in the human
body
but here is another muscle you train
regularly and it's the real
champ your jaw muscle or masseter
it provides 200 pounds of pressure and
in the world record case
all 975 pounds your eyes are constantly
taking
separate pictures and moving all the
time to make a full image of your
surroundings
you don't notice that because your brain
makes it all smooth by stabilizing the
image
and editing different fragments into one
seamless flow
don't like the number on the scales give
yourself a break
from two to five pounds of all your body
weight doesn't even belong
to you but to microscopic life that
lives inside us
all in the human mouth alone more
bacteria live than people on earth
but don't panic it's absolutely normal
and most of these tiny micro
folks are entirely harmless there are no
two identical brains in the world
brain structure highly depends on
conditions in which it develops and
grows
and therefore we all have something
individual to us even on a biological
level
and just like your fingers your tongue
too has a unique print on it
that won't be like any other in the
world the brain takes only two percent
of your whole body weight
but it's such a powerhouse that it
requires twenty percent of the energy
you consume
even while you sleep in fact it's even
more
active while it seems like you're just
resting or wandering in dreamland
if you stretch dna molecules from all
cells in your body
the line will be twice as long as the
diameter of the solar system
one dna molecule will be six and a half
feet long
and it's kind of impressive for
something packed in the tiny fraction of
a cell
and here is the most surprising thing
around fifty percent of all the genes in
your dna
contain encoded information about your
brain structure
98 of your body takes the other half of
the genes
women distinguish more colors than men
because they have
two x chromosomes and men only have one
ah even if something is wrong with one
of the chromosomes
a woman can still see the colors
correctly that's why they are rarely
colorblind
nearly 12 percent of women have four
types of cones in the retina
instead of the regular three this gives
them supervision
they can see 100 million colors and not
one million like
other people you know guys
female muscles are richer in elastin and
more flexible than those of males
girls have a particularly flexible lower
back
this helps them stay upright when they
put some weight on during pregnancy
and their gravity center shifts they can
also do those crazy
gymnastic tumbling runs at the olympics
that defy gravity
women blink faster and more frequently
than men it's
19 versus 11 blinks per minute as
females get older
they start to blink even more because of
higher levels of estrogen
the female brain is nine percent smaller
than that of a man
it has the same amount of cells that are
more densely packed
but the brain's cognitive abilities
aren't any worse
women's immune system is stronger and it
ages more slowly
that's why on average women live longer
than men
the difference can be a whole decade in
some places and at least two to three
years universally
by the way female orangutans and
chimpanzees
also outlive their males well let's rub
it in
[Music]
every day the average woman unknowingly
puts on about 515 chemicals on her body
they come in deodorants shampoos
conditioners moisturizers and other
beauty products
most of them are harmless but it's
always better to research the products
to avoid toxins
women are so good at detecting scents
they can even tell when their partner is
stressed out
just by smelling their shirt this could
be because females have more cells and
neurons
in the part of the brain responsible for
identifying smells
relaxing music slows your heart rate
down and
upbeat and energetic tunes speed the
pulse up
[Music]
even though some animals may look as if
they're crying
people are the only living beings that
can produce emotional tears
other creatures shed tears to lubricate
their eyes
you're more likely to have a bad dream
if you're sleeping in a too hot or too
cold room
one in 200 to 500 people has an extra
rib
called cervical this bone rarely bothers
its owners
and the person may not even know they
have it
[Music]
if you walk for 12 hours a day it would
take you a bit less than 700 days to
travel around the world
[Music]
by age 60 most people lose half of their
taste buds
getting back to bones for a second you
have more than 200 of them in your body
and a quarter of them are in your feet
that's why if those bones aren't aligned
properly
it has an effect on the entire body
each taste bud functions as a mini
computer it consists of up to 100 cells
that analyze taste information
there's no scientific proof that if you
shave your hair
it'll grow back darker and thicker than
before
[Music]
keep in mind that atms are as dirty as
public toilets
when researchers took suaves from atm's
keyboards
they found tons of harmful bacteria
your nose remembers more than 50 000
different smells
that's why when you hear such phrases as
hot chocolate
a new car summer rain you immediately
recall the smell
[Music]
when you blink you not only keep your
eyes clean and moist
you also take a micro nap researchers
from washington university
have discovered that blinking sharpens
attention and serves as a tiny recharge
every day you breathe 25 000 times
without any effort probably a good idea
to keep doing so
[Music]
you blink at a rate of fifteen times a
minute or
fifteen thousand times every day when
you aren't sleeping
every day twenty five percent of your
stomach lining is regenerated
to avoid injury by super potent stomach
acid
50 gallons of blood go through your
kidneys and get cleaned
daily two hundred fifty
000 sweat glands on your feet produce
about a cup of sweat a day
every day about 10 of the human skeleton
is replaced
because bones are in constant
self-reconstruction
around 20 000 thoughts race through your
head every day
[Music]
if you took all the saliva you produced
in a lifetime
you'd fill two swimming pools hey
anybody for a swim
not only your fingerprint is unique but
your tongue print as well
[Music]
every hour an average human loses about
000 skin particles so being flaky
is not only emotional babies only blink
once or twice a minute
if your eye were a camera it'd be a
whopping 576 megapixel one
the highest fever a human ever had was
115 degrees fahrenheit
a human stomach can't really digest
grass as easily as a cow's stomach
you'd need several stomachs for that
the fastest growing hair on your body is
facial hair
the fastest growing nail is on your
middle finger
the fastest growing nose on your face is
on your face